and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show excited to be joined by my
good friend today johnny
pardo johnny is the author and host of
the self-esteem and confidence
mindset and he's a confidence and
writing
mentor johnny welcome to the show square
how's it going
hello sam thanks for having me on it's
great to uh
talk to you on a podcast as well as
being one of my good mates so uh
yeah thank you very much for having me
on i am great how are you
yeah all good on this end man and yeah
looking forward to this one i think
there's gonna be a lot of
useful tips for not just myself but
hopefully everyone tuning in today as
well
and we're gonna be running through all
things daily habits
mindset from both a business level at a
personal level
um and i think a great way to kick it
off with
definitely something i've struggled with
the pat in the past so i'm talking about
impostor
syndrome um which i think probably a lot
of us have had whether that's
in terms of starting our own business
whether that's
in terms of putting things online
whether that's starting our own kind of
venture
all met all these different channels i
know i've certainly when i let's take
for example when i first started posting
on linkedin
i was thinking are people really going
to care what i've got to say
is anyone actually going to resonate
with this is this going to ring a bell
with anyone
but i'd love to know your thoughts on
why imposter syndrome is an issue
for people yeah then we can get into how
to overcome it
yeah of course um so imposter syndra as
you mentioned you you said you've you've
had it and you think quite a lot of us
have had it i've certainly experienced
it
you'd be surprised that some of the
people who admit they
struggle with imposter syndrome and i'll
just kind of explain what it is but
um jennifer jennifer lopez for example i
heard her say
i won an oscar and i felt like a fraud
so you know we're talking about
people we see in the public eye
sometimes as
wow these you know these super achievers
i wish i had their life
by the way should be doing that you
should be always loving yourself and
appreciate what you
have but those people who sometimes
achieve things you'd be surprised
how much they suffer with it and what it
is is basically
when you try something new you come out
of your comfort zone or it's a change
now
that's great and that helps us grow and
progress and as human beings when we
grow and progress
that's that's kind of what makes us feel
happier but
our brain has a very strong survival
instinct and there's a part of the brain
called
the limbic part and the limit part
is more concerned with keeping you safe
than keeping you happy and growing
and when you try something new your
brain starts signaling
signaling and saying whoa whoa whoa calm
down are you sure
you want to be doing this even though
it's not a real danger
your brain is good for keeping you alive
from real
danger sometimes but it also makes up
these
perceived dangers when something comes
out when you come out of your comfort
zone so for like
trying something like posting something
online for example you've not done that
before and your brain's like
whoa calm down but the more you progress
in your journey
the more likely your brain's going to
pop up and start saying
whoa whoa let's calm down but the
difference is it's how you handle it
that is the key thing okay so is it
is it typically because like you
mentioned there you referenced jennifer
lopez that
she had it when she claimed an award and
you wrench mentioned it when perhaps
would
we're posting things online for the
first time whether that's social media
whether that's starting our own business
whether that's advertising it whatever
it may be
is it because it's new to us johnny is
that perhaps why it's striking we think
oh i'm not sure if i'm ready for this
i'm not sure if it's going to work out i
don't know if people are actually going
to like it
is it because it's a new thought running
through our brain that it shocks us
and kind of makes us think not too sure
about this
yeah so there's a couple of bits to it
so like you've just kind of um
asked about it is it is kind of that new
new introduction to new things in your
life that can suddenly think whoa oh
calm down and like this is coming out of
my comfort zone and your brain wants to
keep you safe again
but there could also be it could also
come from limiting beliefs when you've
got these
negative thoughts in your head that have
kind of formed from beliefs or perhaps
negative experiences coming into your
life
and then your brain references that and
unfortunately your brain
is trained to think negative sometimes
but the good thing is if we train it
enough to think positive about
us that will strengthen it but that
makes it
imposter syndrome can be very difficult
for some people
particularly if they're not used to
speaking positive to themselves so
that's another area
these limiting beliefs and this negative
self-talk as well
yeah got it okay so i mean that all
makes sense so what are some good habits
that we can put into play johnny
that can help us i don't want to say
straight away overcome it because i'm
sure it's not we can't just click our
fingers and it's done and we feel
excellent we feel positive and ready to
do
whatever the task is at hand but what
are some practices that we can consider
that can help us get on the road to
overcoming it
yeah so um like like you just first of
all
like you've just pointed out uh not sort
of like overcome it disappears forever
as i've kind of said as we progress um
we go further along we start striving
towards these new goals and we
grow um it's gonna pop up it may pop up
again like i've just given like
celebrities
admit they they struggle with it and
jennifer lopez is just the one example
i i demonstrated but there's plenty of
other examples i've heard
it it can constantly pop up so it's
about managing it and managing that
negative self talk now
i'm a cop for going back to me i'm a
confident
uh my and writing mentor and i help
people of this now
do negative thoughts or these kind of
thoughts never pop up in my life no
they pop up from time to time the
difference is how i
handle it and i've trained myself to
click back really quickly into the
positive self-talk
now habits you can do so
i like to look at it in a proactive and
reactive element so
the proactive element the things you do
day in day out which means the chances
of this
over overruling you and you getting
caught too much into the imposter
syndrome and it paralyzing you from
doing anything
if you're doing the right habits
regularly that's going to feel good but
then there's the reactive habits and
suddenly what can you do if a thought
like this comes into your head now
some of the proactive stuff is just
remembering
to praise yourself praise yourself when
you've done when you've done something
good now as human beings and
some of the listeners may relate to this
and some of us sort of like achieve a
folk
are very bad at this and certainly i was
we forget to praise ourselves when we do
something good
pat ourselves on the back it sounds
really stupid but
we don't do it and then something wrong
happens or something goes wrong rather i
should say
we start thinking oh my god i'm hopeless
i've made another mistake
so if you keep praising yourself
constantly that's reinforcing your brain
to think in a more
positive sense and it's easier to think
in that way more regularly than if
you're just
criticizing yourself i can relate to
that in a bad mindset i mean for example
every now and then at choice i might
have a really good month
i might beat our target but then i'm
never i'm never stopping and thinking
oh great we did really really well
that's an awesome month i'm more like
that was okay
let's move on to the next month and then
start stressing about that and managing
managing our team
understanding what's going on making
sure we've got projects in line making
sure we've got pipeline
for sales making sure our clients are
happy so
juggling all these things never really
i'm definitely guilty of not really
stopping and thinking oh he actually did
well but are there
are there ways is it just a case of we
need to understand and appreciate that
in the moment johnny or is there a bit
more to it
well what i i suggest and this is
something i regularly do with people i
work with
is at the end of the day or the
beginning of the day it's just
writing this is a really simple practice
but it does redirect your brain to think
like this when you do it regularly
and it should it shouldn't be something
you just think ah that's easy i'll skip
it today
is writing down three things you've
achieved for the day
or three things you've accomplished in
your life
yep and just writing that down every day
in the morning or evening
and you can do both of them you could do
both those exercises i suggest or what
you like about you
now that sounds very simple but what
that's doing is
training your brain to think in a way of
right this is what's great about me and
your brain you can instruct your brain
to do these kind of things
if you don't it's letter its own devices
and then suddenly
when all these bad things come coming
it'll start to generalize and think
negative
but by doing this kind of practice it
can help you more regularly
remind yourself of the great stuff about
you so that's one exercise i definitely
always give as well as praising yourself
patting yourself on the back when you've
done something good
um and nothing and this is what i heard
once from a
one of the uk's leading therapists
marissa pearce she said
nothing raises your self-esteem and your
belief in yourself
than your own praise so remembering to
pat yourself on the back as well
it's a really really good one so those
are certainly a couple of habits that
they make sense
uh there's plenty but that's what i mean
yeah the list the list one definitely
makes sense so it's
it's something i guess it's just getting
yourself in the habit is it just saying
these these are three
three things that went really well today
and three things i'm happy about three
things i've learned and done
that i'm pleased with and i guess over
time that compounds right
so well once you first start doing you
might think this is a bit silly this is
a bit weird but if you keep doing it day
by day
week by week over time it's got you into
a good habit
perhaps it just stacks up each day each
day each day
and i guess you just you just reward
yourself a bit more you feel a bit happy
with what you're doing you kind of think
actually i've done pretty well today
because these are the three things i've
forgotten about until i've taken the
time to kind of write them down
yeah that's um yeah definitely it's it
like you said the perfect term there was
the compound and
you may have read the the compound
effect by darren hardy which is a
fantastic book um
or atomic habits by james clear which is
one of my favorites it's all about these
little habits that
make a difference over time but a lot of
us are wanting this instant
gratification
and what i mean by that is we want
something right away we want to feel
amazing now but
it's about these little efforts one one
other thing i just uh
mentioned before we move on is yeah um
it
is incantations now you might be asking
what's an incantation johnny
um and you've probably heard of an
affirmation uh an affirmation is
a phrase you say to yourself over and
over again
like i am strong i am courageous
i am happy or i am wonderful um now
you could also have affirmations of i am
an idiot or i am hopeless
which obviously is going to go into your
system uh which isn't good and you're
gonna feel like that
more often and then you're probably more
likely to feel like an imposter
because as human beings we like to be
consistent with our identity and if
we're saying stuff like
i'm useless i'm hopeless that's going to
be in our system and therefore we're
going to feel more like of
an imposter now an incantation is an
advanced version of an
affirmation it's when you're saying
something with emotional
intensity and a bit of movement because
it really embeds it
into your nervous system so saying i am
confident
it's a lot different than saying i am
just kind of see the difference if you
keep saying things with emotional
intensity it
it's more likely to go into your system
so that's an exercise i'm very keen on
as well
saying stuff but making it more emotion
with more emotions even if you don't
believe at the beginning
it gets with time and repetition it will
go into to make you
say like i am worthy i am confident or
i am this successful writer i am this
successful podcaster
saying that over and over again with
emotional intensity
right okay that's yeah that is something
i've heard of that's something i've i've
practiced myself but i have heard
a lot of successful people and i've
heard it in i've read books and i've
seen it in
in films and videos and stuff where just
like you say
perhaps people have got this goal and
each morning or each evening they'll say
it with intensity
and because they've said it so much it's
drilled into their mind that they've got
to do it
therefore like you say they've got this
positive association with it every time
so over time it builds up
is that kind of how it works because
you're saying it with such emotion
that you kind of feel that it's this has
got to be done and one way or another
i'm going to achieve it is that the
mentality behind it
yeah the well the bit more about the
mentality behind it is you've got your
conscious mind which is what you're
you're thinking you recognize you're
thinking day in day out
and then you've got the the subconscious
mind and not i'm not gonna give you a
whole psychology lesson here but like um
the subconscious mind is what's like
stored within us so it's like this
limits
unlimited storage capacity within us and
thoughts we've like picked out all these
info bits of information
from our live that are stored away and
we can't recall it all because
our brain can't cope with that kind of
level of information
but if we if we're taking in negative
things and beliefs into our system
it's going into that subconscious now if
you're filling it up with lots and lots
of negativity
that's going to make you not feel so
good and you won't have good self-seeing
you have good confidence
you're more likely to suffer from
imposter syndrome but when you're saying
these incantations
what it's doing is putting that into the
sub the subconscious and the
subconscious
mind often drives your behavior so you
might have done something
you might think of the sam you're like
oh suddenly i feel really happy today or
suddenly
how did i do that you know or like
something's
you've done something or perhaps the
other side you weren't as motivated you
weren't feeling as good
now that you've driven a lot from the
subconscious mind and
doing these incantation is training the
subconscious mind to be more
stronger believe have the stronger
belief inside yourself and this
positivity
so that's another basis behind it yeah
so it's
it's it's to do with the subconscious
and again a lot of these techniques it
sounds like
they kind of stack up over time so as
long as you keep doing them
you'll you'll reap the rewards the
effects
with with that technique you've just
shared with us there johnny i mean how
safe say on a daily example is that
something we need to be doing each
morning or each evening or what would
you recommend
i i personally do it three times a day
uh
i would recommend well if you're
starting out maybe just doing it once
i'd say it needs to be done on a daily
basis in my opinion and lots of
the incantations by the way came from my
tony robbins uh
learning i'm a massive tony robbins fan
go to
been to a few of his events and this is
like one of the biggest things i took
away from him
one of the number one success coach in
the world but
it he basically goes on about it but
what i personally do is in the morning
um sort of getting up bit of movement i
do these incantations
when i'm exercising when i'm running at
lunch time
or if i'm walking if it's a weekend and
i'm like doing active recovery a bit
more
i will say it because you're moving with
it as well and
what happens when you're moving is this
information can get past the
the conscious mind because the conscious
mind can have all this negativity
and you say oh that's not true and then
it blocks it but if you're moving
the study's been shown that if you're
moving at the same time
or you're picking this emotional
intensity it's more likely to get in the
subconscious so i do it then and then
before i go to bed
as well um so three times three times a
day and it's quite good before you go to
bed
when you get up because just before bed
you're going into your
deep sleep as well yeah it's funny you
should mention that it's
it's just made me flash back to a sales
film called the boiler room
where i think it's ben affleck's
character it's basically this cut throat
recruiter recruiting these sales guys to
become stock brokers
and he's basically cussing and swearing
them giving them this hard lecture
saying you need to be cutthroat sales
guys
and then he's talking about when you're
on the phone you need to be walking you
need to be walking and talking and
selling
and his phrase there is motion creates
emotion
and that's that's something i really
agree with because if for example
i'll try and take if i'm on a call as
long as i'm not feeling like it i'll try
and walk around whilst i'm on the phone
call
um just because you're up and talking
and people kind of sense it in your
voice right
if you're if you're kind of sat there
still and motionless they
yeah it's almost as if your pitch
changes if you're walking around if
you're a bit more active
so if i'm on sales schools from one
client calls when i can i'll try and
take them walking as i just find it
helps that little bit extra so
yes quite a relevant point and swinging
back to our
earlier chat um when we first started
talking about imposter syndrome so
you mentioned that we should try and do
these three things each day that we've
done well that we're happy for that
we're thankful for
is that something if we flip this to a
business sense
johnny says let's say we've we've got
this big goal we've
for let's say for quarter one we need to
hit this sales target
or we need to win this this many
projects whatever our our goals are
for for our business or personally can
we use this list technique
where we do say three we break down
this quarter quarterly or half yearly or
yearly goal
into manageable chunks and then we make
sure that these three these things that
we're doing each and every day
on the list are contributing slowly but
surely towards that
yeah so just let's just kind of check
where you're coming from on that so it's
more about
um recognizing what you're doing
or is it kind of making sure what you're
doing is aligned to your goals
exactly yeah more making sure that
say for example we're we're a business
owner or a sales rep we've got this big
goal for let's say quarter one or the
first half of the year
or whatever it may be rather than just
looking at this at this almighty goal
this really big number
can we break it down into manageable
chunks
and make sure the daily activity that
we're doing is slowly but surely
contributing to that
rather than just thinking i've got to do
all this stuff i'm never going to hit it
um is that the kind of technique that we
can use with some of the
the strategies you've been sharing with
us yeah i've yeah
yeah i understand the question and i'm a
big fan of um
goal setting and looking at where i'm
trying to go
and the reasons why um but also
how i break it down and what i'm
focusing on and making sure i don't get
caught in the
to-do list just you know focusing what
my
um end goal is but um
the what i talked about earlier was you
know reflecting on what you've achieved
um i think that's really really
important even if you've had a bad day
and perhaps
you've not hit something you set out to
do still listing the free things
that you have achieved like in your life
or what's good about you
i think that's important what in
whatever we're talking about whether
we're talking whether you are in your
own business or
you're working for an employer or
anything i think that's important but in
terms of
a business um what i like to do with
kind of
my goals certainly is
look at what i'm trying to achieve for a
year so i think it's really important
not to do the classic new year's oh i'm
going to
you know lose some weight how much and
not saying how much and then
just do all that stuff or just saying i
want to earn like
a hundred thousand pounds a year and
putting nothing behind it just hoping it
will happen
so i like to actually look at what the
goal is uh
and then actually look what what i'd
have to do roughly in the months
now obviously what i might be aiming for
in the months may change
but i have that end of year goal um you
might have to change it and the
important thing here is flexibility but
got that end goal that you're aiming for
now i think it's important to look at
what your goal is each month and then
based on your month goal
look at what you want to achieve each
week without overdoing it don't try and
do too many that's a classic mistake
i'll get caught into
um and then actually based on your
weekly goal identify
what you might be trying to achieve each
day um
and it might you know the flexibility is
the key but having kind of like maybe
free targets is really really important
i'm saying that but
yeah always remember to say what you're
doing well and
what's good about you because that's
going to encourage you and instill more
certainty in yourself
whether you're in business or not to
actually go and achieve stuff because
you if you've got this negative mindset
against yourself it's not going to
happen
as well yeah i like this because we're
mixing two things really we're mixing
your own mindset from perhaps a mental
perspective but also
we're using real data so we're actually
saying which you just use a great
example
which um of of the new year setting so
the classic one like you say is people
want to lose weight or people want to do
xyz they want to go to the gym they want
to get fit they want to get ripped want
to get six pack
i've been working on that for six years
still not got it um
but yeah i love how you said about
breaking it down into
into monthly goals then turning those
into weekly goals and then seeing how
you're doing for the week and then
breaking that into a daily plan because
ultimately like you say if
you've got these goals that are perhaps
up quite up there
if you've not got an actual actionable
strategy where it's clearly broken down
into the tasks or the activity you need
to do each and every day
how are you going to hit it you might do
it as pot luck but then you've got no
way to repeat that
you've got no system in place to
continually do that and do it again for
the next year for the next month so
that makes sense i'd say as well like
some people say um
you know i i'm more of a flow type
person
and don't really plan now obviously i
i've been in places where i was
so i'm more i come from all the planning
side so i'll not be advised but i've
been on the planning side
when i'm so planned that it just makes
you know your day so structured and no
room for flexibility and flow
and perhaps the enjoyment and enjoy the
present moment but
i in business you do need some kind of
plan and direction
i i don't believe and someone please
prove me wrong
i do not believe you can just go through
business or the flow
kind of i'm going to see what's going to
happen day by day you need
a structured plan eve you know it's
gonna be flexible that's what i say
but i don't believe you can just blag it
and then go through flow
you need some kind of direction to set
yourself to and you
and also one thing i learned because
i've learned a lot about kind of
different business
strategies i mean i'm not not by by no
means a business mentor or anything but
i've heard a lot of great people like
dean graziosi and
people that it's really important to yes
measure it along the way
i think um there's a saying that goes
what's measured
and recorded regularly improves uh
rather than what's not
yeah yeah yeah but just just like we as
guys do at web choice we we measure all
the marketing campaigns because
ultimately
if you're not measuring the activity the
end results whether that's something
you're doing for a customer or client or
even personally
how can you know how well it's gone and
what needs to be tweaked whether you
should carry it on or whether you should
look to improve it so yeah we've gotta
gotta get data in there somewhere for
sure all right johnny so you
you talk about on your podcast in your
books um self-esteem
and building up your confidence and i
think again this this is something
that's really useful
in terms of a business mindset there's
confidence shines through right if
you're talking to someone on the phone
if you want to zoom cool people can tell
people can tell from the tone of your
voice
from if you look them in the eye from
how well you come across from have you
slouch your shoulders down however your
position there's so many
body language traits i'm sure you'll
know a lot better than i would that
shine through whether you're on the
phone whether you're on
the zoom call skype whatever it may be
so
what are some perhaps misconceptions
around the um
self-esteem and confidence johnny and
then perhaps we can get into how we can
tackle those
yeah of course so i think it
the first one i'd say it's not always
and and we kind of touched on this a
little bit earlier but things aren't
always as they seem
with people you may perceive someone in
the public eye as
wow they've got it all they must be so
happy and love themselves
and i mean if you love yourself you you
gotta
you're gonna be happy chances are you're
gonna be very you're gonna be pretty
happy but
there's been so many examples when
people have demonstrated that this is
not true like you see someone you think
wow they must have a lot of good
self-esteem but
we've seen some really severe cases of
the likes of heath ledger robin williams
these are people in the public
eye who are adored and loved by many
many people
and i think the view is if you're rich
famous maybe
perceived as good looking in the public
eye that you you're going to have good
self-esteem
that's that's clearly not true and amy
whitehouse is another example
um whitney houston was had you know
depression didn't like herself they were
really struggling with their self-esteem
these people i just mentioned so that's
one key misconception
that because you're perceived as
successful and i wouldn't say
a success if you're not happy um that's
one
key one i really wanted to point out the
the second one and i'm just really
strong about this one
is there's a view that these people who
appear
confident charismatic have zero fears
and this is one of my like pet peeves
like
everyone has fear we are human beings
it's just we our attitude to how we
handle fear is what's different
so like i talked about there's these
perceived celebrities and they shot you
they shot you and like when they say
they've got imposter syndrome i mean
i've done speeches and people are like
wow you're so confident then i'm like
not now because i'd like
less so now because i really enjoy it
but before i'd be like shake it i'd turn
up or i'd talk i'd be like i'm terrified
but
that would go really well so it's not
that confident people
have zero fears it's the fact that they
manage it and deal with it and when you
get a result when you do something
that's what gives you the feeling of
confidence there's a great saying
by dr ross harris in the confidence gap
book great read
and it's confident action first
confident
feeling second you don't have to have
the feeling
you'd have to be 100 certain and
confident to do something
that feeling follows afterwards those
are probably the two main one but
there's a
there's a couple more i could touch on
if those make sense those make sense
those are some great examples
utilizing people we've most of us would
have heard of or known
um and and like you say what what
perhaps comes across on the outside
isn't always going to be the case on on
the inside and linking that back to a
business sense it might be that we
sound great on certain calls we sound
great in certain meetings face to face
we're on videos we're
not doing now but then other times we
might not we might might not be feeling
great might not get enough sleep or
whatever
outside influence perhaps we had a few
beers tonight before whatever is having
an effect on us
um can shine through so getting it
getting this actionable
johnny what are some ways that we can
kind of bump this up i know you touched
on it a little bit just now in terms of
the actions
first and then that'll that will have
the effect on your second there any any
things we should be aware of that can
can help us out here
yeah and actually there's a there's a
third one i meant to bring in before
i'll go into the actions of all of them
but the third one is
it's uh you know it can be seen as
selfish and
egotistical to start loving yourself
and that's that's a big misconception in
fact
this is my opinion and people might
disagree but i'm gonna explain it
it is selfish not to work on your
self-esteem
because and i'll explain why because
when you work on your self-esteem and
your confidence
you're not only going to feel happier in
yourself but you're going to be a really
positive impact
on to other people so when you're around
someone who's
really upbeat feels great about
themselves they're probably quite a good
knock on to you
um and not just like surrounding
yourself with friends and family but
also
when you're your best self you're more
likely to be able to give to people now
for example
i do a podcast i write books and i've
had lots and lots of people
email me or message me on instagram or
whatever platform and say
well jolly that really really impacted
me thank you so much for sharing that
and if i was not working on my
self-esteem and confidence
then i wouldn't be able to do that and
help other people so actually working on
your self-esteem and confidence
is one of the selfless things you could
do now i'm not saying if you've got low
self-esteem or
low confidence because i've been there
and this is where it started for me
if you've got that low level it doesn't
it doesn't mean that selfish i'm just
saying
if we're not regularly working on it so
we can benefit others around
us and help others then you know you're
doing
other people with disservice as well as
yourself now obviously if low levels
there's so many factors of
impact and this is what i try and do and
help people so that's another
misconception but
in terms of the actions one really key
one
is as i mentioned about fear now fear
can be
like too great a jump sometimes and
actually it stops us from doing anything
now what i suggest to that if you've got
something that's really fearing you and
you're thinking
i can't act confidently or take the next
step then you break it down
it's really important to look at
something and make it into and just even
write down the action plan if you need
to so
for me even putting my name up in the me
say my name in a meeting put my hand up
i meant
in a meeting was terrifying uh but now i
just do
company speeches and all sorts and
what i did was just present to a small
group and then to a bigger group and
then just kept building it up so you
build it block by block so that's
kind of one of the things i said as well
as the self-esteem habits and
talking yourself well on a regular basis
um if that makes sense as well sam
yeah those are some great points man
like the first point you mentioned i
especially love
so but being positive yourself or loving
yourself is
is going to shine through to others so
like you say it's not selfish at all
because it's
you're essentially if you're happy and i
completely agree it shines
through to other people most of the time
so it might piss off the odd person but
then what can you do about that
yeah in the hospital exactly and and on
the whole it's
it's like you say if i'm around people
certainly i can relate to that they're
happy the
upbeat is it shines through on me even
if you're perhaps not feeling great
yourself
i've seen it firsthand and i can
definitely say that
some of the best months i've had in
terms of generating revenue in terms of
generating business and sales
i've been around great people upbeat
whether that's
my colleagues whether that's my clients
um whether that's my team
and that's definitely had an influence
on my mindset
making things happen and the activity
that i put in
whereas it's perhaps when it's on
decline then i've noticed that in in the
numbers in the revenue
so it's definitely got a knock on effect
so that's such a great point mate
yeah absolutely and um kind of linking
from that one thing you can do as an
individual as well is
surround yourself with as many good
people as possible because that's gonna
impact on how you feel about you
so if you're around five negative
there's a saying goes if you're
around five millionaires you're probably
going to become the sith if you're
around
five people who just don't exercise uh
you know bit lazier don't really do
anything you're probably gonna be the
sick but
with your how you feel about yourself
and your drive and your desire if you're
hanging out with people
who are other entrepreneurs or business
people
and this is what i do i hang out hang
out with so many great people that i
learn
lots of stuff so it's really important
you hang out the right people and not
toxic people as much as possible and
sometimes people aren't toxic they're
just
you know not serving you so it's
important you find the right people but
also the information you listen to
is absolutely key so if you're listening
to things that are going to bring you
down and you feel negative
they're upset sometimes listening to too
much of the news it's probably not going
to make you feel so good about life
but if you start listening to sam's
podcast or
other various uplifting podcasts uh
that's obviously the key one i thought
about that sam
um then you're going to feel better
about yourself so that's what i'd say as
well
i appreciate this shout out dude that's
a perfect way to to round it up and and
always appreciate the plug johnny look
been an absolute pleasure talking sir
and now for anyone that wants to learn
more about johnny pardo what is the best
way to connect with you
tell us a bit more about the books the
podcast and how we can get in touch
yeah of course um so yeah i'm i'm quite
spread across uh social media at the
moment i've got my podcast which is on
apple spotify and a variety
of platforms it's called the self-esteem
and confidence mindset
or jolly pardo you could also find that
book
which is on amazon and if you want to
follow me i'm also on facebook i've got
a group called the self-esteem
confidence mindset
and you can find my instagram which is
just jolly pardo
if you type that in as well um so yeah
those are the main places if
anyone would like to find out more about
my work and if it could benefit them so
thank you very much for
having me on the show sam it's been
great talking appreciate it man really
enjoyed the chat we'll have to get you
back on again
in the future and all of johnny's links
to his podcast his books his sites and
his socials will be available at the
show notes
over at businessgrowth.marketing with
that i want to thank you once again sir
thank you and um everyone tuning in if
you enjoyed the show
be sure to hit subscribe to business
growth show wherever the heck you get
your podcast we interview two business
leaders
each and every week to provide
actionable tips across marketing
across sales or the idea to help you
grow your business and with that we'll
catch you on the next episode appreciate
you joining tune in